.TH "CHARISMA" "1" "Sep 5th 2025" "Charisma 1.1.0"
.SH NAME
charisma \- convert characters
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
charisma \fB\-\-from=\fR\fIENCODING\fR [\fB\-\-to=\fR\fIENCODING\fR] [\fB\-\-repair\fR]
.PP
charisma \fB\-\-version\fR
.PP
charisma \fB\-\-help\fR
.PP
(See the OPTIONS section for details.)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
Charisma is a command-line interface to the C library of the same name.
This program reads characters from \fCstdin\fR, converts them to the specified encoding form, and writes them to \fCstdout\fR.
Any errors are written to \fCstderr\fR.
.PP
The \fIENCODING\fP argument must be one of the following: \fIutf8\fR, \fIutf16\fR, \fIutf16le\fR, \fIutf16be\fR, \fIutf32\fR, \fIutf32le\fR, or \fIutf32be\fR.
Where \fIutf16\fR and \fIutf32\fR specify native byte order.
When processing the argument all case differences, low line characters (U+005F), and hyphen-minus characters (U+002D) are ignored.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-r
.TQ
.BR \-\-repair
Replace malformed character sequences with the Unicode Replacement Character (U+FFFD) and continue processing.
If this option is omitted, then the proram terminates if a malformed character sequence is read.
.TP
.BR \-f
.TQ
.BR \-\-from "=\fIENCODING\fP"
Character encoding read from \fCstdin\fR.
.TP
.BR \-t
.TQ
.BR \-\-to "=\fIENCODING\fP"
Character encoding written to \fCstdout\fR.
Defaults to the \fIENCODING\fP specified by \fB\-\-from\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 on success, 1 if a malformed character sequence is read, 2 if a general error occured, and 3 if an invalid command-line option was specified.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR charisma (3)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/charisma
published here
.UE .
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSING
Charisma is Free Software distributed under the GNU General Public License version 3 as published by the Free Software Foundation.
Alternatively, you can license the library under a proprietary license, as set out on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/charisma/license/
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
